== Update Errata

Red Hat Product Errata are advisories on bug fixes, security, and
enhancement on software installed on your RHEL host, based on analysis
by Red Hat engineers. Red Hat Satellite provides a simple method for
applying these fixes to hosts. We’ll walk through those steps.

For more information on Red Hat Errata,
https://access.redhat.com/articles/2130961[please visit this page].

=====
.Apply errata
[%collapsible]
====

To view Errata in Satellite, click on `+Content+`, `+Content Types+`,
and `+Errata+`.

.Errata menu
image::erratamenubar.png[../assets/erratamenubar]

You’ll be taken to a page containing all the Errata contained in the
repositories we originally synchronized in the second challenge of this
lab.

Not all of these Errata apply to the hosts we’ve added to this Satellite
server. To view applicable and installable Errata, click on the
`+Installable+` radio boxes.

.Applicatble and installable errata filter
image::applicableandinstallable.png[../assets/applicableandinstallable]

Let’s install all the Installable Errata to our two hosts.

Select all of the Errata we just filtered.

.Installable errata
image::selectallerrata.png[../assets/selectallerrata]

IMPORTANT: Increase the page size to select all the errata. If the number
of errata exceed the maximum page size, you’ll have to run this
operation multiple times or run it from the host > content > errata
menu. For the purposes of this lab, it’s not necessary to apply all
errata.

.Pager
image::pagersize.png[pager]

You’ll be taken to the Apply Errata menu where you should do the
following:

[arabic]
. Select the hosts to apply the Errata. In this case we’ll select all
hosts.
. Click `+Next+`.

.Apply errata
image::applyerratawizard.png[../assets/applyerratawizard]

Click confirm to apply the errata.

To view the application of Errata in real-time, click on the host
`+rhel1+`.

.Run job
image::viewapplicationoferratahost.png[../assets/viewapplicationoferratahost]

On the following page, you’ll be able to see the application process.

.Job details
image::process.png[../assets/process]

To return to the job status page, click `+Back to Job+`.

.Back to job button
image::backtojob.png[../assets/backtojob]

When the job is complete, the page will look like this.

.Job completion
image::completejobstatus.png[../assets/completejobstatus]

Go to Hosts > All Hosts.

.All hosts
image::allhostsagain.png[../assets/allhostsagain]

All hosts managed by Satellite will still display in an orange font
signifying there are status warnings. This is because the Tracer
application has detected services that require restarting. If the kernel
or systemd has been updated, the hosts will require a reboot.

.Traces status
image::tracesorange.png[../assets/tracesorange]

====
=====

== Resolve Traces (Restart services that require it)

When software is updated on a host, software that runs as a service
require a restart before the updated software is loaded into memory.
Tracer will detect which of these services need to be restarted.

=====
.Resolve Traces
[%collapsible]
====

Click on a host (it doesn’t matter which, you’ll have to perform this
procedure twice.)

.Error status
image::errorhost.png[error host]

Do the following to resolve the traces.

[arabic]
. Click on the `+Traces+` tab. All the services that require restarting
are listed here. If no services require restart, this list would be
blank.
. Select all the services listed.
. Click `+Restart app+`.

.Restart host
image::tracesrestart.png[restart]

WARNING: Resolving traces might take a few minutes, especially for a
reboot, since the host will wait 60 seconds before initiating the
reboot.

When you view the `+Traces+` menu, the list will be empty signifying no
services require restart.

Repeat the procedure to resolve Traces with the remaining host.
====
=====